Title:"Caesar Salad Recipe"

Author:"Natasha Kravchuk"

Description:
"My son, David, is to thank for this recipe. He is 9 years old and took kids cooking classes at Sur La Table where he learned and fell in love with this caesar salad recipe, so we re-created it at home together.aesar salad is easy, classic and the ingredients are simple.

The crunchy homemade garlic croutons really elevate this salad, making it look and taste quite fancy. 

The cheese crusted onto each little toast will have you snacking on these croutons!The caesar salad dressing comes together so fast and all you need is a bowl and whisk. 

This Caesar dressing is light, healthy and packs so much fresh flavor without needing much salt at allIn a large mixing bowl, combine all of your ingredients and toss gently to coat the lettuce in caesar dressing. 

This recipe makes enough croutons for two full salads so you’ll have them ready to go for round 2!"

Ingredients: 
“For the Croutons:
1/2 French Baguette cut in half and thinly sliced (1/4" thick)
3 Tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 tsp minced garlic 2 small cloves
2 Tbsp grated parmesan cheese
Caesar Salad dressing:
2 small garlic cloves minced (1 tsp)
2 tsp dijon mustard
1 tsp Worcestershire sauce
2 tsp fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 tsp red wine vinegar
1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil
1/2 tsp sea salt or to taste
1/8 tsp black pepper plus more to serve
For the Caesar Salad:
1 large romaine lettuce (or 2 small heads romaine)
1/3 cup parmesan cheese shredded or shaved”

Instructions: 	
"1.	Preheat oven to 350˚F. Cut the baguette in half lengthwise through the top of the baguette then slice diagonally into 1/4" thick pieces. Place the breads onto a baking sheet.

2.	In a small bowl, combine 3 Tbsp extra virgin olive oil and 1 tsp of finely minced garlic. Drizzle the garlic oil over the croutons and sprinkle the top with 2 Tbsp grated parmesan cheese.

3.	Toss until evenly coated. Spread in a single layer over the baking sheet and bake at 350˚F until light golden and crisp (10-12 minutes), or to desired crispness.

How to Make Caesar Salad Dressing:

1.	In a small bowl, whisk together garlic, dijon, Worcestershire, lemon juice and red wine vinegar.

2.	Slowly drizzle in extra virgin olive oil while whisking constantly.
Whisk in 1/2 tsp salt and 1/8 tsp black pepper, or season to taste.

How to Make Caesar Salad:

1.	Rinse, dry and chop or tear the romaine into bite-sized pieces. 

2.	Place in a large serving bowl and sprinkle generously with shredded parmesan cheese and cooled croutons.

3.	Drizzle with caesar dressing and toss gently until lettuce is evenly coated."
